President Biden has said the US will
respond to a drone attack on an American
Military Base in Jordan near the Syrian
border at a time and in a manner of its
choosing Mr Biden blamed the attack on
radical iran-backed militant groups
operating in Syria and Iraq tan has
denied any involvement in the attack in
which three service Personnel were
killed and 34 were injured this is the
latest in a series of attacks against us
bases in the region since the war in
Gaza began let's bring more with our
world affairs correspondent Paul
Adams the Americans say the attack
happened at a base known as Tower 22
right on the Syrian Jordanian border
it's one of many American bases across
the region there have been dozens of
drone and missile attacks in recent
months but no American Personnel have
been killed until
now Joe Biden seen here attending church
was quick to point the finger we know it
was carried out by radical iran-backed
militant groups operating in Syria and
Iraq he said it's not necessarily um a
Tipping Point into uncontrolled
escalation between the United States and
Iran but it's another very dangerous
step because as I say the us will have
to respond even more strongly than it's
done to previous attacks carefully
cultivated over years Iran has a wide
network of allies and proxies operating
in countries across the Middle East
they're all oppos osed to Israel and the
United States it's sometimes called the
axis of resistance there are pro-iranian
militias in Lebanon the Palestinian
territories Gaza and the West Bank Plus
Iraq and Syria and far to the South
there's also the houthis in
Yemen over the weekend the houthis have
been launching their own attacks hitting
a tanker in the Gulf of Aiden British
warship HMS Diamond used an air defense
missile to bring down a houthi
drone with British help the US have been
hitting houthi military targets for a
couple of weeks so far the houthis seem
undeterred they say they'll stop
attacking ships if and when there's a
ceasefire in
Gaza the problems America is dealing
with across the region aren't all about
Gaza but the war there has left the
whole Middle East a lot more dangerous
Paul Adams BBC News